As I started to say, I view myself as a jack of many trades.
Because when I got to A&M, my chief interest was in crustal seismology.
But I got to A&M, and the first few years, I had to teach so many different courses.
So I never became a superstar in any one field.
And so I
I did teaching every semester, and I did some research, and then, of course, I did some administration.
I think I did them all fairly well, but I don't think if I had any regrets, I wish I could have been a better researcher.
I had more time to be a better researcher.
But that's where I stand at the moment.
What were your personal guidelines for being a faculty member?
What did you think were the rules that you should follow as a faculty member?
Well, I had a professor actually at MIT.
At the time, he was my
did the teaching of geophysics, but he was still working on his PhD.
It was in the infancy of geophysics.
And I thought he was a remarkable individual in terms of his dedication to students, to teaching.
My ethical background comes from my New England I'm in.
I was brought up in the Depression.
I was very fortunate, I think, in terms of my parents.
I don't know whether this is appropriate, but my dad was the youngest of eight or ten children.
He was born in this country.
But all his other children had been born in Sweden.
He met my mother in high school.
An immigrant kid, really.
World War I came along.
He enlisted in the Navy.
And then he got an appointment to the Naval Academy.
And he finished his plebe year.
And then his eyes were not up to snuff.
He had to leave.
He came back to Providence.
And I think my mother wouldn't marry him until she made him go to college.
I don't think he would have gone otherwise.
He worked his way through college.
He got a degree in engineering.
And then he went back in 1923 and got a master's in geology when the engineering geologists didn't exist.
So I grew up in a family that cared very much about education.
And at the same time, my dad was a, brought up a Lutheran, became a Congregationalist, and certainly gave me a marvelous background, I feel.
So in terms of my ethical decisions, it came from my parental background.
Let's see.
We may have skipped over.
During the, after William's death, the presidents then, Jarvis Miller and Frank Vanderwer and so forth, are there any of those presidents that you think deserve special credit for the development in geosciences?
I was not privy at those levels.
Certainly, I didn't think much of the appointment of Jarvis Miller.
For me, I would give the highest grades in what they meant to A&M.
In my years, I would give the highest grades to Mr. Rutter for making the changes that only he could have made politically.
and then for Jack Williams for building on that foundation academically.
I would concur with you that certainly even though I
I was opposed to dictatorial type of regime, I recognized that we, Rutter brought us into this, was able to make these changes and made the alums accept it, and we moved on from there.
I mean, I think he was the person for his time.
If he was president today, I would detest him.
Oh, I agree.
Jack Williams,
As I already said, I really admired his position, his stance.
I mean, the fact that he understood education.
I'm appalled at times when I hear decisions
our Board of Regents made.
I mean, through the years, Clint Phillips has been a close friend, and so I occasionally was privy to some of the discouragements that he experienced.
But I really didn't operate at that level.
That's why I find your coffee group so interesting, because
You, I don't know whether we should, I'm not saying anything negative.
That's right.
You are talking about administrative decisions at a level above the level that I operated at.
And so I find some of these stories quite interesting.
When Dr. Williams and Dr. Calhoun asked me if I was interested in an administrative position,
I told both of them, yes, because I would like there to be a faculty viewpoint at the table where the decisions are made.
I didn't mean to imply that they didn't have a faculty viewpoint, but I wanted to give what I thought was a faculty viewpoint there.
Let's see, have you thought of any topics that we have not touched that we should?
Well, I guess not really.
I mean, I could recite stories about worrying about field trip from the dean's office viewpoint, worrying about these field trips that take off with students, with vans.
Give an example.
Well, I made one of these field trips with Dave Stearns, a two-week trip with our geophysics and geology students.
And I can remember that, because we were using university vehicles, and they were supposed to have been maintained.
What a laugh.
I blew a tire by the time we got to Junction.
Chris Mathewson and I, when we were in Fruita Valley, Colorado, working on the, taking the students through some of the geology on the Encompagre Plateau, very interesting area.
Two of the vehicles, one was, you couldn't, you turn it off, but it continued to run.
We took, Chris and I took two vehicles into the local
I've forgotten whether they were Chevys, but we'll say they're Chevys, and to get them
tuned up, and the mechanic, before our eyes, rebuilt one carburetor, one vehicle.
The spark plugs were little nubs.
It was clear that no maintenance had been done.
And then you begin to wonder, because we're doing mountain driving, what about brakes and so forth and so on?
That's pretty scary.
And then you get a phone call from the Rangers at Arches Monument.
Your faculty are being irresponsible here.
During the late 80s,
We had 400 student majors in geology.
That was when the oil company was hiring anybody that came off the streets.
We had some kids, or a couple of kids, that were inscribing their initials in the arches, you know.
Or the kid that wandered over the dune at White Sands.
And he's sort of myopic, and he was barefooted, and he lost his direction, and nobody worried about him.
You know, this sort of stuff, after all.
Never a dull moment.
Well, I mean, yeah, right.
Let's see.
Let's kind of draw this to a close.
I have only two or three other things.
One is to urge you, if you have any A&M-related papers, letters, memorabilia, any kind of papers that you ever want to dispose of,
I beg you, please put them in the A&M archives so they would be there forever.
Don't throw them away, and if you're going to pass them on to any other organization, since the A&M was the place for your career, that would be the best place.
Then the next one is, let's make believe that someone comes up to you in the next few days and gives you a check for a million dollars, and there's only one condition to the check.
you must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you get to decide what use they would make of the money.
If you had a million dollars you could give Texas A&M, what would you most want them to use the money to do?
You want me to answer that right now?
I would like it to go into the College of Geoscience,
And I would like it to put together a comprehensive undergraduate support facility for the undergraduate students in the college that would have the available technology so that they could review lectures, would have a support staff that could counsel with students in their first one or two years.
I think that's what I would do with it.
All right, then the last question.
At this time in your life, what feelings do you have about Texas A&M?
I have warm feelings.
I think in terms of university,
Loyalty.
My first loyalty would be to MIT, not to my undergraduate school.
I had a marvelous experience at MIT Woods Hole.
I've had some marvelous experiences here.
Three of my children have graduated with bachelor's degrees from A&M, and two of them have masters from here.
A fourth one quit after 80 hours in the business school with close to a B average.
So, you know, I've seen this place grow.
What I have not
been able to accept is the growth has come so fast that we have not, the campus has not been able to absorb
And the cultural accoutrements that go along with this have not come back to A&M.
And so I'll stay here in this community.
I still actively serve in a couple committees on campus.
I think it's a good school, but I think it could be so much better.
I guess that's what I'm saying, academically.
I am just semi-appalled at the fact that so much of the dollars that come to the school are attracted by athletics.
I look at the Bryant Eagle.
in football season and every day in the week they feature one football star.
Why couldn't the Eagle feature one scholar every day for 365 days a year?
I think probably that's because I was raised in an Ivy League atmosphere where athletics was not the end all, it was part of the activities.